Source: https://alternativehealing.org/carthamus_tinctorius.htm
Name: Carthamus tinctorius
Filename: carthamus_tinctorius.htm
==================================================

Complementary and Alternative Healing University 中藥詞典 Chinese Herb Dictionary Search this site 在本網站找資料 Search this site List of Health Problems Chinese Herb Dictionary Qigong Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) Acupuncture Prescribed Drug Dictionary Biochemistry Dictionary Lecture Slides Research Librarian General Online Library Research Sites Viagra Massage/Acupressure Hypnotherapy Tell us what you want Notify Changes & New Information hong hua 紅花, 紅藍花 , fan hong hua ﹐ 番 紅花 zang hong hua 藏紅花 by: Joe Hing Kwok Chu Pharmaceutical name: 英 文药名： Flos Carthami Tinctorii Biological name: 拉 丁名： Carthamus tinctorius L. Crocus sativus L. (zang hong hua or fan hong hua 藏紅花 即番紅花) Pron. in Japanese: 日 語發音： koka Pron. in Korean: 韓 語發音： honghwa Pron. in Cantonese : 粤 語發音： hung4 faa1 Common Name: 外 文名： Cattharmus tinctorius L: English: safflower, African saffron , American saffron , bastard saffron , dyer's saffron , false saffron . Deutsch : Färber-Saflor, Färber-Safflor , Färberdistel . Suomi S aflori, V ärisaflori . Sven.: S afflor, F ärgtistel . F rançais : carthame de teinturiers , safran bâtard . Espagnol : alazor , azafrán bastardo , azafrancillo . Distribution: 分 佈： Henan, Hebei, Zhejiang, Sichuan, Yunnan Those called Zang hong hua (Tibetan hong hua) are not grown in Xizang (Tibet), but they are grown in the Middle East but imported through Tibet (Xizang). 河南，河北，浙江，四川，云南。 稱為臧红花者并非産於西藏，而是産於中東，經西藏輸入的。 Properties (characteristics): 性味: acrid, warm 辛﹐溫。 Channels (meridians) entered: 歸經: liver, heart. 肝 ﹐心。肝經血分藥 Actions & Indications: 主治﹕ Actions & Indications: 1. Being used in lumps in intestines and bowels, sores and carbuncles, pain from impact injuries, rheumatoid arthritis, i nvigorates circulation, breaks up blood stasis condition, and promotes menstruation: injuries from impact, swollen boils, irregular menses, pain in stopping of menses, pain from blood stasis after birth. Small amount can invigorate circulation and large amount can get rid of blood clots. It is an important herb in blood stasis therapy and often is prescribed with tao ren . To invigorate circulation, it is often used with dang gui , chuan xiong , shao yao . to rid of blood stasis, it is used with san leng, e zhu , and da huang . 2. measles with blood stasis, color not lively red: use hong hua, dang gui , zi cao , da qing ye 3. angina of coronary diseases: use hong hua, dan shen , chuan xiong , chi shao . 4. thromboangitis obliterans: use hong hua, dang gui , tao ren , chi shao , ru xiang. 5. for treatment of enlargement of the liver and spleen. 6.For physical injuries with blood stasis and pain: broken bones, dislocated joints, sprains, and impact. 主治﹕ １ ：用於癥瘕結塊，瘡癰腫痛，跌仆傷痛，風濕痺痛，月經不調，經閉腹痛，產後瘀痛等症。紅花辛散溫通，少用活血，多用祛瘀，為治 瘀 血 組滯之要藥，尤為婦女調經常用之品。常與 桃仁 相 配，活血則加 當歸 ﹐ 川芎 ﹐ 芍 藥 等；祛瘀則加用 三 棱 ﹐ 莪 朮 ﹐ 大黃 等。 ２ ：用於斑疹色暗。本品又可用於麻疹出而復收，或熱鬱血滯﹐斑疹色不活紅，取其活血祛瘀以化滯，可與 當歸 ﹐ 紫 草 ﹐ 大 青葉 等活血涼血﹐泄熱解毒之藥物相配。 ３ ：治療冠心病心絞痛，與 丹參 ﹐ 川芎 ﹐ 赤芍 等同用； 4. 血栓閉塞性脈管炎(脫疽)，與 當 歸 ﹐ 桃仁 ﹐ 赤 芍 ﹐ 乳 香 等同用。 5 ﹕ 治肝臟與脾臟腫大。 6﹕ 跌打損傷﹐骨折﹐脫臼。用于去 瘀 血 。 Medical function: 藥理作用﹕ Medical function: 1. Cardio-vascular system It can mildly stimulate the heart, lowers the resistance of coronary arteries, improves circulation and provides the amount of blood flow to the heart muscle and provides nutrition to the heart muscles. Large amount has an inhibitory effect. 2. Effect on platelets It can prevent the coagulation of the platelets thus inhibits the formation of thrombosis. 3. Effect on uterus Small amount can increase the rhythmic contraction of the pregnant uterus. Large amount can cause constriction and spasm. 4. Provides protection for the brain in case of oxygen deprivation. Studies show that it can increase the treshold of rat in oxygen deprivation 5 Lower lipids 6. anti-bacterial, anti-fungal, 7. analgesic, 8. diuretic, 9. immune stimulant, 10. anti-inflammatory 11. anti-spasmodic, 12. emmenagogue (induce menses flow), 13. diaphoretic (induce perspiration), 14. induce interferon 藥理作用 １對心血管系統作用﹕ 小 劑量 可輕度興奮心臟，降低冠狀動脈阻力，增加其流量和心肌營養性血流量，但大劑量則有抑制作用。 ２抑制血小板凝集，所以可抑制血拴形成。 ３對子宮作用﹕ 對受孕子宮，小劑量有明顯的緊張性或節律性收縮增加，大劑量可使子宮收縮，甚至痙攣。 ４對缺血缺氧性腦病有保護作用﹕ 實驗證明能提高小鼠耐缺氧能力。 5 降血脂作用 6. 抗細菌﹐抗真菌 7 止痛 8 利尿 9 增強免疫機能 10 抗炎 11 抗抽筋 12 通經 13 發汗 14 引發干 擾 素 Samples of formulae: Painful or blockage of menses: tao hong si wu tang ( tao ren 10 g , hong hua 6 g , dan shen 12 g , dang gui 12 g , chi shao 12 g , chuan xiong 7 g. ). or use ge xia zhu yu tang Painful abdomen due to blood stasis after birth: hong hua san , tuo hua jian Painful joints, purpura, eczema: dang gui hong hua yin 痛經；經閉﹕ 桃 紅四物湯 ( 桃 仁 10克， 紅 花 6克 ， 丹 參 12克， 當 歸 12克 ， 赤 芍 12克 ， 川 芎 7克 )。 膈 下逐瘀湯 產後瘀阻腹痛﹕ 紅 花散 , 脫花煎 癥瘕積聚；關節疼痛；斑疹﹕ 當歸紅花飲 Painful abdomen due to blood stasis after birth : hong hua san (source: Formulae of Gynecology by monks of Xiao Shan Bamboo Temple of Zhejiang province, Qing Dynasty) hong hua 38 g, niu xi 38 g, shu mu 30 g, add white wine and simmer to a serving size. Drink while warm. Editor's note: it seems that the dosage of hong hua is too much. Please adjust according to the syndromes of the patients. 產後瘀阻腹痛 ： 紅 花散 (出處 ﹕ 《女科秘方》為清代浙江蕭山竹林寺僧所著 ) 組 成 ： 紅花一兩 牛膝 一兩 蘇木 八 錢生白酒煎八分，溫服。 編者按﹕原方用紅花 一兩﹐可能太重。需按病症調整子。敬請中醫前輩指教。 Chemical ingredients: 化學成份﹕ neocarthamin 新红花 甙 carthamin 紅花甙 carthamone 紅花醌甙 glucose 葡萄糖 carthamidin 紅花素 saffloryellow 紅花黃色素 saffloryellow-A 紅花黃色素A palmitic acid 棕榈酸 myristic acid 肉豆蔻酸 lauric acid 月桂酸 stearic acid 硬脂酸 Cinnamic acid 肉桂酸 arachidic acid 花生酸 oleic acid 油酸 linolenic acid 亞麻油酸 polysaccharides 红花多糖 nonacosane 廿九烷 beta-sitosterol β-谷 甾醇 . Dosage: 用量: 0.5 g to 2 g 0.5 ～ 2. 克 Cautions: 禁忌 not to use in cases of bleeding, heavy menses, ulcer, pregnancy or during taking blood thinning drugs, like warfarin or heperin . 出 血 ，潰瘍病人， 月經過多者，與孕婦忌用。 不可與散 瘀西药如 苄丙酮香豆素鈉(華法林) 或 肝 素 同用 以免導致出血。 Addendum: zang hong hua (fan hong fa) zang hong hua (fan hong fa) Crocus sativus L., product of Europe , Middle East and India (Kashmir) . It was imported through Xizang (Tibet) province . it is now also cultivated in China. It usage is the same as hong hua but stronger and possesses the effects of cooling the blood and rid of toxins. Dosage is 1 to 1.5 g in decoction. 附﹕ 藏紅花 (番紅花) （ Crocus sativus L. ） 產 於歐洲及中亞。一向由印度﹐伊朗經西藏輸入。現在中國也有生產。 性微寒味甘。歸心﹐肝經。作用與紅花相似而力較強﹐兼有涼血解毒之功效。多用於溫熱病﹐熱入血份發班﹐熱鬱 血淤 ﹐ 班色不紅。 用量﹕ 1 ~ 1.5 克﹐作煎劑。出血﹐月經過多者，與孕婦忌用。 · 偽品紅花一般多以添加雜質來加重其份量，也有用其 它花類 染色後加工而摻入紅花中的。 · 雜質類 ：用淨紅花加入細沙﹐滑石粉﹐玉米糖稀﹐紅顏色及杏黃色加工而成。 · 偽品類 ：用陳菊花﹐黃連須等粉碎後染色加工而成。 鑒別 方法： 1. 從重量上進 行鑒 別：純淨紅花（標 準 麻袋）每包20-23公斤，偽 品一般麻袋中加上塑料薄膜，裝的較 鬆 ，也會超過25公斤。 2. 從 顏色上進行鑒別：淨品紅花，顏色鮮艷。偽 品紅花，顏色較 暗淡。 3. 從手感上進行鑒 別：淨品紅花，手感柔軟，泡鬆 。偽 品手感，覺得有硬硬的感覺，較 頂手，輕揉後手中留有細微雜 物。 4. 水鑒 別：把本品放入水杯中，加入熱水，輕 輕 攪拌，放置一會。把上半部分倒掉，這時水杯底如有雜 物，系偽 品或含雜 。如用菊花染色者，上面 顏色會洗掉，露出原形。 鑒別 方法取材自﹕ 新疆大漠生態有限公司 Search this site Problems with website? Please Click here for comment. (Not for inquiry ) Click here for inquiry Copyright Notice 按此看關於版權問題 A manuscript... writing, translating and proofreading in progress Sponsors' Ads by Google 以下為谷歌 所提供之廣告 List of Health Problems Chinese Herb Dictionary Toxicity of Some Herbs Side Effect of Some Herbs Herbs that can be toxic to kidneys Traditional Chinese Medicine TCM Diagnosis Samples of Formulae Terms of Traditional Chinese Medicine Acupuncture copy right 版權所有 Qigong (chi kung) Prescribed Drug Dictionary Email our web master for your suggestion (not for inquiry) Biochemistry Dictionary General Online Library Qigong classes Fake Email Warning Research Librarian Search Qigong classes Home Weather Report Disclaimer Last update: Dec 23, 2013; 10 a .m. LAH