Source: https://alternativehealing.org/interstitial_cystitis_herb.htm
Name: Interstitial Cystitis 間質性膀胱炎
Filename: interstitial_cystitis_herb.htm
==================================================

Complementary and Alternative Healing University Home 現代 中藥辭典 Search this site List of Health Problems Chinese Herb Dictionary Qigong Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) Acupuncture Prescribed Drug Dictionary Biochemistry Dictionary Lecture Slides Research Librarian General Online Library Search Research Sites Viagra Massage/Acupressure Hypnotherapy Tell us what you want Notify Changes & New Information Interstitial Cystitis, Herb Therapy 間質性膀胱炎 by: Joe Hing Kwok Chu 按此看中文 Clinical observation: Urinary urgency, frequency and lower abdominal pain not caused by infections or tumors. The auto-immune dysfunction has been suspected as the main cause of interstitial cystitis. There is no established traditional treatment for interstitial cystitis. Usually supportive treatments are being used. A drug called Suplatast Tosilate (IPD-1151T), a TH2 cytokine inhibitor, made by Taisho Pharmaceutical ( 大 正制药株式会社 ) ﹐ the second largest pharmaceutical company in the world, has been tried on interstitial cystitis patients and has produced beneficial result. This points to the possibility that auto-immune dysfunction can be the main cause of interstitial cystitis. The side effects of long term usage of this drug have not been established. The author has had good success in correcting the auto-immune dysfunction with certain combinations of qigong training. Other syndromes caused by auto immune dysfunction include asthma , rheumatoid arthritis, non infection chronic inflammation of prostates, non infection chronic fatigue, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), scleroderma, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), etc. Duke psychologist, Edward Suarezmen, found that under stress men with low serotonin produc ed higher levels of two cytokines -- interleukin 1 alpha and tumor necrosis factor alpha and both of these cytokines are well recognized as contributing to atherosclerosis . But, women with low serotonin showed an increase only in interleukin 1 alpha. Interleukin 1 alpha is a type of biological response modifier which stimulates the growth and action of immune system cells that fight disease. The editor has observed that many patients with interstitial cystitis also have depression and stressful lives. This may be caused by the higher levels interleukin 1 alpha which causes the auto-immune dysfunction. Herb therapy Prescription: che qian cao 15 g, jin qian cao 15 g, bai hua she she cao 10 g, hu po powder 3 g, bai shao 10 g, chi shao 10 g, gan cao 10 g, ze xie 10 g, dan pi 10 g, fu ling 10, gui zhi 3 g, tu fu ling 15 g, xia ku cao 15 g. Boil with water. One prescription per day. Divide into 3 servings. Use 7 to 15 prescriptions. Adjust the formula according to zheng (syndrome) using traditional Chinese medical diagnostics . For those diagnosed with shenyinxu (kidney yin deficient): when symptoms disappear, use liu wei di huang wan and lu dou tang (mung bean soup) regularly to maintain health of bladder. Source of formulae: 《人民日报海外版》 (2001年12月03日) Editor's note: The formula contains 15 grams of xia ku cao , but if the patient is seriously in the condition of shenyangxu, the herb may be too cold for the patient. Xia ku cao possesses relatively high large quantity of potassium salt which may not be suitable for IC sufferers who have the condition of shenyangxu . The delimma is that xia ku cao possesses autoimmune suppressing effect which may be suitable for the disease. Warning: Lu dou tang and liu wei di huang wan are not suitable for shenyangxu IC sufferers. After syndromes have subsided, shenyangxu (kidney yang deficient) IC sufferers can use jin gui shen qi wan or shi quan da bu tang to improve health. Most of chronic IC sufferers are of shenyangxu type. Note: Phaseolus aureus is the botanical name for mung bean or lu dou. lu dou tang: Raise about 30 grams of mung bean and 3 grams of chen pi . Simmer in about 1200 c.c. of water for 1 hour. Use as porridge. See full description of mung bean. (Warning: this soup is not suitable for kidney yang deficient patients). It is suspected that most IC sufferers may be kidney yang deficient . Avoid consuming: spicy food, sugar or fruit juices, coffee, chocolate, alcohol, and avoid products containing ephedra (ma huang) , ephedrine or pseudoephedrine. If the body is shenyangxu (kidney yang deficient) type, avoid food high in potassium , like citrus, bananas, mung bean sprouts, grapes, spinach, and mustard green. Important: Click here to see explanation of formulae in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) page. If auto-immune dysfunction is suspected qigong therapy can be used as main therapy if other methods fail. jin qian cao, (Lysimachia nummularia L.) Properties: acrid, cool, bitter and non toxic. Uses: rid of infection, promote urination, inhibition coughing, for jaundice, for stones in kidneys or bladders, spitting of blood, skin rash. See full description of jin qian cao . Click here to go back to Herb Therapy. hu po (fossil of amber) is the rosin fossil of pine trees. Uses: rid of blood clots, calming, for epilepsy, insomnia, blood in urine, to promote urination. Click here to go back to Herb Therapy. chen pi Chen pi is the dried and semi fermented peel of citrus reticulata Blanco, citrus tangerina Hort. et Tanaka, or citrus erythrosa Tanaka . See full description of chen pi here. Click here to go back to Herb Therapy. xia ku cao xia ku cao is the dry flower of Prunella vulgaris Linn. Uses: treating red and painful eye due to infection, swollen glands, scrofula (TB infection of lymph nodes), goiter, dull headache /dizziness due to hypertension. See full description of xia ku cao here. 間質性膀胱炎 大正 製 药 株式会社 ( Taisho Pharmaceutical )所製造 消炎 药 甲 磺司特( Suplatast Tosilate ) 為白细胞介質抑制劑，作為支氣管哮喘、過敏性鼻炎及特應性皮炎治療藥已經上市。 早期的 臨床研究 结果已經表明，本品對間質性膀胱炎有治療效果。由此臨床研究﹐可推及間質性膀胱炎主要致病原因可能是自體免疫機能過敏。 本文作者曾經以辨証法配合幾種氣功減輕自體免疫機能過敏﹐相當有效。 自體免疫機能過敏可引起各種症狀﹔包括﹕哮喘﹐類風濕關節炎﹐非感染性前列腺炎﹐非感 染性長期疲倦﹐紅斑性狼瘡﹐硬皮病﹐自發性血小板減少紫瘢等。 處方﹕ 車前草 15 克﹐ 金錢草 15克﹐ 紫草 15克﹐ 土 茯苓 15克﹐ 白花蛇舌草 10克﹐ 琥 珀 粉3克(另包)﹐ 白芍 10克﹐ 赤 芍 10克﹐ 甘草 10克﹐ 澤瀉 10克 ﹐ 丹皮 10克﹐ 茯苓 10克﹐ 夏 枯草 15 克﹐ 桂枝 3克。 先將各藥(除琥珀粉)用水洗淨。各藥連同琥珀粉加水六大碗﹐煎成兩碗。每日一劑 分三 次溫服。 連用7 至15 劑。痊癒後。 腎陰虛 者可用六味地黃 丸 和綠豆湯 調理。 出處﹕ 《 人民日报海外版》 (2001年12月03日) 原方有夏枯草15克。編者認為夏 枯草含鉀鹽太高﹐不適 合腎陽虛 間質性膀胱炎病人 。如腎陽虛情形嚴重﹐ 夏 枯草可能不合用。 但夏枯草有 免 疫抑制作用也許有用。 敬請中醫前輩不惜指教。 須避免用﹕辣椒﹐香料﹐咖啡﹐酒精﹐巧克力 , 可可﹐麻黃﹐含麻黃素之西藥。 體質屬於 腎陽虛 型者 少 吃 高鉀食物 ﹔如柑桔﹐柚﹐西柚﹐香蕉﹐葡萄﹐菠菜﹐芥菜, 等。 如懷疑是自體免疫機能致病﹐可用 氣功 治 療。 金錢草 性味： 味辛苦，性寒，無毒。 功效： 清熱，利尿，鎮咳。治黃疸、結石、 吐血、溼疹。 紫草 屬紫草科多年生草本植物。根入藥，有活血、涼血、清熱解毒、利尿、滑腸等功效 琥珀 琥珀為古代松科植物的樹脂埋藏地下經久凝結而成。 功用﹕散瘀止血；鎮驚安神，治驚風癲癇，驚悸失眠；利水通淋，治血便血尿。 Sponsors' Ads by Google 以下為谷歌所提供贊助者之廣告 A manuscript... writing, translating and proofreading in progress Problems with website? Please Click here for comment. (Not for inquiry ) Click here for inquiry Copyright Notice 按此看關於版權問題 List of Health Problems Chinese Herb Dictionary Toxicity of Some Herbs Side Effect of Some Herbs Herbs that can be toxic to kidneys Traditional Chinese Medicine TCM Diagnosis Samples of Formulae Acupuncture copy right 版權所有 Qigong (chi kung) Prescribed Drug Dictionary Email our web master for your suggestion (not for inquiry) Biochemistry Dictionary General Online Library Qigong classes Fake Email Warning Research Librarian Search Qigong classes Home Weather Report Disclaimer Last update: Dec 13, 2008; 1:10 p .m. LAH