Source: https://alternativehealing.org/shi_chang_pu.htm
Name: Acorus calamus
Filename: shi_chang_pu.htm
==================================================

Complementary and Alternative Healing University Home 現代 中藥辭典 Search this site List of Health Problems Chinese Herb Dictionary Qigong Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) Acupuncture Prescribed Drug Dictionary Biochemistry Dictionary Lecture Slides Research Librarian General Online Library Search Research Sites Viagra Massage/Acupressure Hypnotherapy Tell us what you want Notify Changes & New Information shi chang pu 石菖蒲 The English portion is translated and edited by: Joe Hing kwok Chu 英文部分：朱興國編譯 Pharmaceutical name: 英文藥名﹕ Rhizoma Acor i gramin i Botanical name: 學名﹕ Acorus calamus var angustatus (shi chang pu 石菖蒲) Acorus gramineus Soland (shi chang pu 石菖蒲) Acorus calamus (shui chang pu 水 菖蒲) Pron. in Japanese: 日語發音﹕ shobu Pron. in Korean: 韓語發音﹕ changpo Pron. in Cantonese: 粵音﹕ se chong pu Other Names: 別名﹕ chang pu 菖蒲 , jiu jie chang pu 九節 菖蒲 處方名 （prescription names) ： 石菖蒲，石菖卜，菖蒲，菖卜，九節 菖蒲，等 Common Name: 英文名﹕ Sweet flag, myrtle flag, calamus, flagroot. Distribution: 產地﹕ Mainly produced in Sichuan, Zhejiang, Jiangsu provinces of China. 主產 四川， 浙江，江蘇 。 Properties characteristics)﹕ 性味﹕ acrid, warm. 辛 ，温。 Channels meridians) entered: 歸經﹕ heart, liver, spleen. 歸 心，肝 ， 脾 經 。 Medical functions: 藥理﹕ Effect on CNS: In animal studies: this herb can lower 5-Hydroxyindole acetic Acid ( 5-HIAA), dopamine, 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and homovanillic acid. This shows that the herb shi chang pu can sedate the CNS through lowering monoamine of neurotransmitters. The ethanol extract of this herb can counter the h ighest threshold of mice and rats in electrical shock and lowest threshold in pentetrazole, seizure reaction of strychnine , thus it shows that shi chang pu possesses anti-seizure effect. The main ingredients of the total evaporating oil of shi chang pu, β-asarone and α-asarone, can promote sedative, hypnotic, and anti-seizure effect. The extract of shi chang pu can enhance the learning and memory of mice and bring up the threshold of endurance of lack of oxygen. Cardio-vascular effect: corrects arrhythmia and slows down heart rate. One of the ingredients of chang pu, bisasarin possesses good lowering of lipid effect. It can be absorbed quickly and it can distribute widely in the body and dissipates slowly. In past studies, it shows that the evaporating oil of chang pu can be used to treat the arrhythmia of rats caused by aconitine of wu tou. It can lower the heart rate of domesticated rabbits' irregular heart rate caused by epinephrine and by barium chloride. . Effect on respiratory system: improves asthma and chronic bronchitis. There are reports that show α-Asarone, an important ingredient of chang pu, can be used to treat simple form of chronic bronchitis, asthmatic type of chronic bronchitis or asthmatic bronchitis, whether it is early stage of attack, chronic stage or sudden acute stage. Effect on digestive system: relieve spasm of the intestine Antibiotic effect Anti-cancer Anti-epilepsy (more detailed translation of the following will be uploaded) ■ 對神經系統的作用 動物實驗表明，石菖蒲能降低5-羥吲哚乙酸，多巴胺，3，4-二羥基苯乙酸及高香草酸的水平，說明石菖蒲可能是通過降低單胺 類神經遞質起到 中樞神經 鎮靜作用。石菖蒲醇提取物能明顯對抗大，小鼠的最大電休克發作和小鼠的戊四氮最小閾發作及小鼠士的寧的 驚厥反應，說明石菖蒲醇提取物 有明顯的抗驚厥作用。石菖蒲總 揮 發油是鎮靜，催眠，抗驚厥的主要成分，α-細辛醚及β-細辛醚 是石菖蒲上述作用的主要活性成分。石菖蒲提取 物有促進小鼠學習記憶和提高耐缺氧的作用。菖蒲具有促進動物體力和智力的作用。石菖 蒲去油煎劑，總 揮 發油，α，β-細辛醚對小鼠的正常學習 有促進作用，對各種類型的記憶模型都有不同程度地改善作用。 ■對心血管系統的作用 研究指出，菖蒲中的二聚細辛醚具有降脂作用，它吸收快，分布迅速廣泛，體內消除較緩慢，具有很好的降脂效果。研究表明，石菖 蒲揮 發油對大 鼠由 烏頭 鹼 (aconitine) 誘發的心律失常有一定的治療作用；對家兔由腎上腺和氯化鋇誘發的心律失常，有減慢心律的作用。 ■對呼吸系統的作用 有報道指出，α-細辛腦（α-Asarone）是石菖蒲的主要成分之一，可治療處於發作期，遷延期或病情加重期的單純型慢性 支氣管炎，喘息 型慢支或支氣管哮喘。 ■對消化系統的作用 用電生理方法研究中藥石菖蒲水提液對大鼠胃腸肌電的作用發現，石菖蒲水提液對胃腸肌電動呈現抑制作用，其作用是通過阻斷膽鹼 能M受體及迷走 神經非膽鹼能受體實現的。研究指出，石菖蒲去油煎劑，總 揮 發油，α，β-細辛醚均能抑制離體家兔腸管自發性收 縮，拮抗 醋膽素 (acetylcholine)，組胺 (histamine)t 及 氯化 鋇 (BaCl 2 )導 致腸管痙攣，增強大鼠胃腸道蠕動及小鼠腸道推進功能，還可促進大鼠膽汁分泌。研究指出， 石菖蒲的揮 發成分α-細辛醚，β-細辛醚 及1-烯丙基-2，4，5-三甲氧基苯對豚鼠離體氣管和回腸有很強的解痙作用。 ■抑菌作用 經培養發現，石菖蒲在污水中能正常生長，同時發現石菖蒲的提取液對已知的8種純菌株都有一定的抑制作用。 水菖蒲對肺炎雙球菌、甲型鏈球菌、金黃色葡萄球菌、白 色葡萄球菌、八疊球菌、卡他球菌等均有抑制作用。(4～6《全國中草藥匯編》 ■抗癌作用 研究指出，石菖蒲揮 發油提取物α-細辛醚對SGC-7901，Detroit-6，HeLa 等人癌細胞株有抗癌活性。 通過觀察人癌細 胞形態學改變，並應用活細胞染色體 計數等方法，進行動態的定量研究表明，α-細辛醚能選擇性地抑制及殺傷人癌細胞。 ■抗癲癇作用 石菖蒲中的α-細辛醚具有抗電驚厥，戊四氮驚厥，側腦室給乙酰膽鹼致驚厥作用，用於癲癇大，小發作的臨床治療。 [1] ■李延斌 Actions & Indications: 主治﹕ Being m a inly use d in delirium , epilepsy, coronary diseases, angina, arrhythmia, stroke, vertigo, ringing in the ears, atrophic gastritis, external injury of the brain, mentally handicapped/disabled . 主要應用於昏迷，癲癇，冠心病，心絞 痛，心律失常， 中風，眩暈，耳鳴，耳聾，萎縮性胃炎，腦外傷，弱智等。 [1] Chemical ingredients: 化學成份﹕ The content of essential oil differs according to where the plants are produced. 揮 發 油的 含量及其组成可因產 地等不同有較大差異 。 Root and leaves contain essential oil 0.11 to 0.42%. The main ingredients are: 根茎和葉中均 含揮 發 油（0．11～0．42％ ） 其 主要成分是 β-Asarone 63 . 2～81 . 2％ β-细 辛醚（顺式 ) 63 . 2～81 . 2％ a sarone 8 . 8～13 . 7% 细辛 醚8 . 8～13 . 7% c aryophyllene 石竹 烯 α- h umulene α-葎 草烯 Sekishone 石菖 醚（1-烯丙基-2，4，5-三甲氧基苯） amino acid, organic acid, and sugar 氨基 酸，有机酸和糖类。 roots and stems contain essential oil 1.5 to 3.5% 根茎 含揮 發 油1.5％-3.5％， those produced in Nanjing, the roots and stems contain 1.13 to 3.72%; leaves contain 0.1 to 0.3%; whole plant contains 0.24 to 0.48%. The main essential oils are: 南京產 的根茎含1.13％-3.72％，葉 含0.1％-0.3％ ，全草含0.24％-0.48％，揮 發 油中主要含 : α-asarone α-细 辛醚 β-asarone β-细 辛醚 The several essential oils are: 数种样品的揮 發 油成分 如下： bisasarin 二聚細辛醚 β-asarone β - 细 辛醚 α-asarone α - 细 辛醚 d -asarone d -细辛醚 cis-methylisoengenol 顺甲 基異 丁香酚 trans- methylisoeugenol 反甲 基異 丁香酚 shyobunone 水菖 蒲 isoshyobuncne 異 水菖蒲酮 epishyobunone 表水 菖蒲酮 linalool 芳樟 醇 calamenene 菖蒲 烯 β- gurjunene β古 香油烯（古芸烯 ) δ-cadinene δ杜 松烯 From the essential oil of the root and stem, the following have been issolated: 從根茎的揮 發 油中，尚 分離出 : calamendiol 菖蒲 烯二醇 isocalamendiol 異 菖蒲烯二醇 preisocalamendiol 前菖 蒲烯二醇 acoronene 菖蒲 烯酮 acorone 菖蒲 螺酮 acoragermacrone 菖蒲大牯牛兒酮 acolamone 菖蒲 酮 isoacolamone 異 菖蒲酮 root and stems of shi chang pu contain essential oil of 0.5 to 0.92%. The oil contains: 石菖蒲：根茎含揮 發 油0.5％-0.92％ ; 油中含 : α-asarone, β-asarone α-细 辛醚和β-细辛醚 Those produced in Nanjing, the roots anstems contain essential oil of 0.58 to 2. 49%. The oil contains: 南京產 石菖蒲的根茎含揮 發 油0.58％-2.049 ％，油中含 : β-asarone 62.38％ β-细 辛醚62.38％ α-asarone 2.17％ α-细 辛醚2.17％ Fresh herb contain essential of 0.2% to 0.42%. Fresh leaves contain 0.25% and the oil contains close to 30 minute quantity of chemicals. The more important ingredients are: 鲜草含揮 發 油0.20％-0.42％ ，鲜葉含0.25％，油中含近30种微量成分，其主要成分及含量如下： β-asarone β-细 辛醚 α-asarone α-细 辛醚 caryophyllene 丁香 烯 sekishone 西克 酮 safrol 黄樟 油脑 cis-metylisoeugenol 顺甲 基異 丁香酚 α-humulene α葎 草烯 calamenene 菖蒲 烯 camphor 樟脑 Other: 其他： vitamin C 維生素 C sitosterol 甾醇 tannin 鞣質 potassium 鉀 calcium, etc 鈣等 shui chang pu ( Acorus calamus ) contains: 水菖蒲含： α-asarone α-細辛醚 β-asarone β-細辛醚 cis-metylisoeugenol 順甲基異丁香酚 cal-amendiol 菖蒲烯二醇 acorenone 菖蒲螺烯酮 shyobunone 水菖蒲酮 acorone 菖蒲螺酮 acoragermacrone 菖蒲大牯牛兒酮 acolamone 菖蒲酮 isoacolamone 異菖蒲酮 Dosage: 用量﹕ Internal use: 3 to 6 g. (fresh herb 9 to 24 g); or use in pill or powder form. External use: boil with water and use it to wash affected parts or grind into powder and make into paste form. 內服：煎湯，3~6克（鮮者9～24克 ）；或入丸， 散。外用：煎水洗或研末調敷。 Samples of formulae :處方舉例﹕ For improving memory in study: Name of formula: Kong shen zhen zhong dan ( Confucius ' Inside Pillow Pills) : Composition: shi chang pu 12 g, yuan zhi 12 g, long gu 18 g, baked gui ban 12 g. Add 1 4 00 c.c. of water and simmer down to 400 c.c. and use as tea. Diarrhea: shui chang pu, cut into slices. Dry under the sun. Grind into powder. Fill into capsules. 0.3 g per capsules. Take 3 times per day. 3 capsules each time. Children dosage should be less. Chronic bronchitis: Use shui chang pu capsules of 0.3 g. Take 2 capsules each time, 2 to 3 times per day. Take 10 days continuously. One therapy period is 10 days. Suppurative corneal inflammation: Use shui chang pu 60 g, water 300 c.c. Simmer to 100 c.c. Strain. Adjust pH to neutral. Sterile the decoction under pressure with heat. Use as eye drop. Three times per day, 2 to 3 drops each time. Eye bath: once per day for about 10 minutes. 讀書善忘： 孔聖枕中丹 《清 ﹐ 汪 昂 醫方集解》治讀書善忘 ﹐ 久 服令人聰明。 【 组成】 敗 龜 板 酥 灸 , 龍骨 研 末入雞腹煮一宿 , 遠志 , 九節菖 蒲 . 三 錢 ﹐ 遠志 三 錢 ﹐ 龍骨 五 錢 ﹐ 炙 龜 板 三 錢 。 以 三 碗 半 水 煎 至 一 碗 。 痢 疾： 水菖蒲切片曬乾，研粉裝膠囊，每粒0.3克，每日3次，每次3粒，溫開水送服，小兒酌減。[2] 慢性氣管炎 ： 水菖蒲膠囊(每粒裝水菖蒲根粉0.3克)每次2粒，每日2～3次，連服10天為一個療程。[2] 化膿性角膜炎： 水菖蒲乾根60克，加水300毫升，文火煎至100毫升，過濾去渣，調 pH呈中性，高壓滅菌即得。(1)點眼：每日3次，每次2～3滴；(2)眼 浴：每日1次，每次10分鐘。[2] Modern Research: 現代研究﹕ Toxicity & Cautions: 毒素與禁忌﹕ use care in cases of yinxu (yin deficient) , irritable and sweating heavily, cough, spitting blood, spermatorrhea. There are literature that mention using shi chang pu do not eat goat or lamb meat. 本品辛香溫燥，凡 陰 虛 陽亢 ， 烦 躁汗多 ， 咳 嗽 ， 吐 血 ， 精 滑者慎服。 有記載，服中藥方中石菖蒲者忌吃羊肉 。 Sponsors' Ads by Google 以下為谷歌所提供贊助者之廣告 [1] 中國 藥 報【日期】2004-12-28 【期次】197(總 第2912期) 【版次】B5 【版名】综合报道 李延斌 [2] http://www.hulu.com.tw/moi/Acorus-1H.htm According to the all the herb dictionaries of the past in China, the original correct herb, shi chang pu came from the roots of Acorus calamus var angustatus . The rhizoma is small and it has nine sections per Chinese inch. Today the in the market it is substituted with the root of Anemone altaica Fisch. The roots are shorter, spindle shape, and sections are closer and are easier to break. The broken surfaces are flat. Currently the correct herb of Acorus calamus var angustatus is being mentioned in literature but is not available commercially. The function of shi chuang pu （ Acorus calamus var angustatus ） is for ridding of dampness and harmonizing (soothing) the stomach. The two herbs should not be interchanged. 正品九節 菖蒲按歷代本 草所述經考証為 藥典收載之天南星科植物石菖蒲 （ Acorus calamus var angustatus ） 的 根莖，惟體小節 密，一寸有九節 者，此方為石菖蒲的優質品。 現在市售九節 菖蒲則皆毛莨科植物阿爾泰銀蓮花 （ Anemone altaica Fisch. ） 的 根莖。其根莖短小，稍彎曲，長1-4cm，直徑0．3-O．5cm。表面棕黃色至暗棕色，具多數半環狀突起的節(鱗葉痕)，斜向交互排列。質堅脆，斷面平 坦，白色，有粉性，可見淡黃色小點(維管束)6-9個排列成環。氣微，味微酸。 由上對照可知，天南星科植物石菖蒲為本草所述及《中國藥典 》（85版）所載正品。南星科九節 菖蒲只有記載如今 並無商品。在功效上，石菖蒲主化濕和中。 水菖蒲( Acorus calamus )與石菖蒲功效略相同：化痰，開竅，健脾，利濕。 阿爾泰銀蓮花 之節菖蒲 （ Anemone altaica Fisch. ）植物成分有抗腫瘤、抗炎 、解熱鎮痛、鎮靜、抗驚厥等作用 。與水 菖蒲( Acorus calamus )，石菖蒲 （ Acorus calamus var angustatus ） 有差別 ，因此，應嚴格區分，不可以此代彼。 A manuscript... writing, translating and proofreading in progress 翻譯，編寫進行中、 Click here for inquiry Copyright Notice 按此看關於版權問題 List of Health Problems Chinese Herb Dictionary Toxicity of Some Herbs Side Effect of Some Herbs Herbs that can be toxic to kidneys Traditional Chinese Medicine TCM Diagnosis Samples of Formulae Acupuncture copy right 版權所有 Qigong (chi kung) Prescribed Drug Dictionary Email our web master for your suggestion not for inquiry) Biochemistry Dictionary General Online Library Qigong chi kung) classes Lecture Slides Research Librarian Search Qigong classes Home Weather Report Disclaimer Search this site Last update: Feb 13, 2009 ; 3 : 06 p.m. LA shi_chang_pu.htm chang_pu.htm