ban xia, Complementary and Alternative Healing University  現代中藥辭典




Complementary and Alternative Healing 
    University 
 





中藥詞典    Chinese Herb Dictionary    
     


Search this 
    site    
    在本網站找資料





 
ban xia 半夏  by: Joe Hing kwok Chu See picture of herb here.  按此看圖。
Pharmaceutical name:英文药名：
Rhizoma Pinelliae TernataeBiological name:拉丁學名：
Pinellia ternata (Thunb.) BreitPron. in Japanese:日語發音：
hangePron. in Korean:韓語發音：
panhaPron. in Cantonese:粤語發音：
bun3  haa6Common Name:英文名：
pinellia rhizomeOther Name:別 名:
san bu tiao, lie dao cao, di ba dou, ma yu guo, di lei gong, di wen三不掉，裂刀草， 地巴豆， 麻芋果，地雷公，地文 Distribution:分佈：
Sichuan, Hubei, Henan, Guizhou, Anhui四川，湖北，河南，贵州，安徽。Properties (characteristics)：性味：
acrid, warm, toxic (especially raw ban xia)辛，温，有毒 （尤其是生半夏）。Channels (meridians) entered:歸經：
lung, spleen, stomach肺，脾，胃。Actions & Indications:主治：

stops vomiting, promote vomiting, rids of phlegm 
         nodules, 

        calming, lower pressure in the eyes.
 
Sheng ban xia: 
        raw, not processed. It is washed, rid of external 


        skin, and fine roots then dry under the sun. It is toxic. Usually it is 


        for external use.
 
Qing ban xia: those have 
        been soaked in alum water solution. Often it is used in transforming 
        phlegmJiang ban xia: those have been soak in ginger (jiang) 
        and alum solution. It is effective in stopping vomiting.
Fa ban xia: those have been soak in gan cao 
        and lime water solution. It is effective in getting rid of dampness.
Ban xia qu: made from ground fa ban xia 
        with added wheat flour and make into the shape of cookie and fermented. 
        It is effective in transforming phlegm and in helping digestion. Its 
        properties are bitter in taste, neutral in characteristics. It enters 
        lung, spleen and large intestine channels.
燥濕 祛痰，止 嘔，散結消痞，催吐，鎮靜，降眼壓。
 

生半夏﹕加 清水浸泡，至切開中心無白心時﹐取 出，瀝乾水份。切片约３ｍｍ厚。晒乾或用文火烘乾。生 半夏 力強 而有 毒﹐外 用於消 腫散結。因有毒一 般不內服 。

清半夏：經白礬水浸漬者。常用於 化痰。

姜半夏：用生薑，白礬水浸漬者。常用於止 嘔。

法半夏：經甘草，石灰液浸漬者。常用於燥 濕。

半夏麴：法半夏研細加麵粉，製成餅狀並發酵者。常用於化痰止咳，消食 。味苦，性平，歸肺，脾，大腸經。


Medical Function:藥理:
anti vomiting effectanti nephritis effectexpectorant effectanti convulsion effecttoxic effect: see coniine鎮吐作用抗腎炎作用化痰作用抗驚厥作用毒性作用：看毒芹鹼Chemical Ingredients:化學成份:
 β-sitosterolβ-谷甾醇choline胆碱daucosterol胡蘿蔔甾醇3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde3,4二羥基苯甲醛coniine  毒芹鹼protoanemonin原白頭翁素1-ephedrine hydrochloride1-麻黃鹼鹽酸鹽guanosine鳥苷homogentisic acid龍膽酸Dosage:用量：
 
      4.5 to 12 g. Concentrated extract: 0.5 to 2 gper day. Adjust the dosage according to syndrome andbody condition.4.5 to 12 克。濃 縮中藥：0.5～2.0克 。可依病症與體質酌 量增減使用量。 Commonly Used formulae:常用配方:
ban xia bai zhu tian ma tang 半夏白朮天麻湯ban xia xie xin tang 半夏瀉心湯er chen tang 二陳湯chai hu gui zhi tang 柴胡桂枝湯liu jun zi tang 六君子湯Modern Research:
 Cautions:注意：
do not use in any cough with bleeding due to yinxu or those with liver   diseases [1]. Use caution in cases of heat. Not compatible with wu tou..Raw ban xia (sheng ban xia) is very toxic. See coniine.
Ban xie is toxic for the 
        liver.Antidote: use sheng jiang (raw ginger) juice, or just sheng jiang, lu dou,  fang feng, gan cao to make into decoction. Drink frequently to rid of the toxin. 陰虛咳血不可用。有肝病者忌用【1】。有熱者小心應用。反烏
        頭。生半夏有大毒。看毒芹鹼。
本品對肝臟有毒。中毒可用生薑汁或生
        薑，綠
        豆，防風，甘
        草煎湯頻服以解毒。 [1] Chinese Journal of Basic Medicine of Traditional Chinese Medicine; 2005, Vol 11, No. 12[1]中國中醫基礎醫藥雜誌; 2005 年，第11卷，第12期。
 


Search this 
    site 


Problems with website? Please 

Click 
    here for comment. (Not for inquiry )    
    


Click 
    here for inquiry 



Copyright Notice 

按此看關於版權問題




Sponsors' Ads by Google 
    以下為谷歌 所提供之廣告



A manuscript... writing, translating and proofreading  in progress








List 
        of Health Problems




Qigong 
        (chi kung)




Toxicity of Some Herbs



Side Effect of Some Herbs



Herbs that can be toxic to kidneys




        Traditional Chinese Medicine
 


TCM Diagnosis
 



        Samples of Formulae




        Terms of Traditional Chinese Medicine



        Acupuncture





copy right
 


版權所有




Qigong classes




        Prescribed Drug Dictionary




        Email our web master for  your suggestion (not for inquiry)



Biochemistry Dictionary



 



Qigong 
        classes

 



Research Librarian

 



 



Home




        Weather Report




        Disclaimer


Last update: Dec 
        13, 2014; 5 a.m. 
        LAH





 








