chai_hu, Complementary and Alternative Healing University




Complementary and Alternative Healing 
    University 
 





中藥詞典    Chinese Herb Dictionary    
     


Search this 
    site    
    在本網站找資料





 

chai hu 柴胡

by: Joe Hing Kwok Chu

Click here to see picture of chai hu herb.  按此看柴胡飲片圖。
Pharmaceutical name:

藥 名 ﹕

Radix Bupleuri

Biological name:

拉 丁 學 名 ﹕
Bupleurum chinense DC. (北柴胡)
Bupleurum falcatum L. (銀柴胡)
Bupleurum scorzonerifolium Wild.(紅柴胡，南柴胡，細柴胡，軟柴胡)

Pron. in Japanese:

日 語 發 音 ﹕

saiko

Pron. in Korean:

韓 語 發 音 ﹕

siho
Pron. in Cantonese: 粵 音 ﹕

caai4 wu4

Common Name:

英 文 ﹕

thorowax root, hare's ear root

Other names:

別名：

chun chai hu (literally spring chai hu)春柴胡, chai hu 柴胡, di xun 地熏, zi hu 茈胡, shan cai 山菜, ru cao 茹草, chai cao  柴草, ruan chai hu 軟柴胡, ying chai hu硬柴胡, ya hu芽胡, ya chai hu 芽柴胡, chun hu 春胡, nan hu 南胡, chai hu 才胡, di xun 地薰, yun gao 芸蒿

Bupleurum chinense: bei chai hu (literally northern chai hu), ying chai hu (literally hard chai hu)

Bupleurum scorzonerifolium:  nan chai hu (literally southern chai hu), xi chai hu (literally thin chai hu), ruan chai hu (literally soft chai hu)
 

北柴胡（ 硬柴胡 [Bupleurum chinense]） ，

 南柴胡（ 細柴胡，軟柴胡[Bupleurum scorzonerifolium]）
 

Distribution:

分 佈 ﹕

Bupleurum chinense DC. (north chai hu) is mainly produced in Liaoning, Gansu, Hebei, Henan.

Bupleurum scorzonerifolium Wild.(south chai hu or xi chai hu or ruan chai hu) is mainly produced in Hubei, Jiangsu, Sichuan.
 

北柴胡（硬柴胡）主產 遼 寧 、甘 肅 、 河北、河南。

南柴胡（細柴胡，軟柴胡）主產 湖北、江 蘇 、四川。

Properties (characteristics)﹕

性 味 ﹕

bitter, slightly cold.

苦 ﹐ 略 寒 。

Channels (meridians) entered:

歸 經 ﹕

liver, gall bladder, pericardium, triple fire

Actions & Indications:

主 治 ﹕

to disperse heat and fever, improve yang. For cold and influenza, alternating chill and fever, malaria,
        liver qi stagnation, 
qi stagnation, fullness in chest and rib cage, irregular menses, prolapse of uterus, and prolapse of rectum.

疏散 退熱，升陽舒肝。用于感冒發熱, 寒熱往來, 瘧疾, 肝鬱 
 氣滯, 胸脅脹痛, 脱肛, 子宫脱垂, 月經不不調。

Medical Function:

藥理﹕

Medical Function:

calming effect on CNS

pain relieving,

antipyretic, reducing heat

anti inflammation

effect on immune system

effect on digestive system

effect on heart and blood vessels

effect on excretion of urine﹕small amount improves urination and large amount does not have the effect

anti tumor

anti bacteria, virus, and amoeba

effect on metabolism

anti HBV

improves liver function
 

鎮靜,

解熱

鎮痛

抗炎
促進免疫功能

消化系統作用

心血管作用

抗癌作用

利尿作用﹕小量有利尿作用﹔大劑量無此作用

抗菌及抗流感病毒

新陳代謝作用

改善肝功能

Chemical ingredients:

化 學 成 份 ﹕

1. Vaporizing oils: 2-methyl cyclopentaone, limonene, myrcene, (+)-carvone, trans-tarved carveol, pulegone, myrtenol, α-terpineol, linalool, geraniol, n-tridecane, (E) - geranylacetone, α-cubebene, humulene, trans-caryophyllene, longifolene, nootkatone, hexadecanoic acid, hexahydrofarnesylacetone, pentanic acid, caproic acid, heptylic acid, 2-heptenic acid, caprylic acid, 2-octenic acid, pelargonic acid, 2-nonenic acid, phenol, O-methoxy phenol, gamma-heptalactone, gamma-decalactone, eugenol, gamma-undecalactone, methyl phenol, ethyl phenol, thymol, messoia lactone, vanillin acetate.

β-terpinene, limonene, β-fenchene, pulegone, isoborneol, β-terpineol, α-copaene, humulene, a-farnesene, aromadendrene, cis-caryophyllene, trans-caryophyllene, β-elemene, gamma-muurolene, patchoulane, nootkatone, ledol.

2. Saponins: Saikosaponin, saikogenin, longispinogenin.

3. Organic acids: Oleic acid, linolenic acid, palmitic acid, steaeric acid, lignoceric acid.

4. Ethanol  group: α-spinasterol, delta7-stimasteneol, delta22-stigmaastenol, stigmasterol, adonitol, bupleuromol.

5. Others: Angelicin, calcium, potassium, aluminum, oxalic acid.

Dosage:

用 量 ﹕

3 to 12 g

3~12 克 。

Samples of formulae:

處方舉 例﹕

xiao chai hu tang 小柴胡湯,

chai hu gui zhi gan jiang tang 柴胡桂枝乾薑湯

Formula for Eye Viral Infection 眼睛病毒感染

See list of  other chai hu formulae 其他柴胡方劑

Modern Application:

現代應用﹕

Modern Application:

 to reduce fever

 cough

 viral infection of the liver

 to lower ALT and AST : [6]

 for high lipids of blood

 globus hystericus

現代應用﹕

解熱

止咳嗽

肝臟病毒感染

降肝臟 ALT 與  AST

高血脂

梅核氣

More to upload
 

Cautions:

It is mildly toxic. Not for use in cases of yin deficiency cough or headache due to ascending liver fire.

Overdose causes headaches, dizziness, vomiting, tremors, gastroenteritis, and pathogenic erections.

There were report of cases of mortality of  broncho-interstitial pneumonia suspected were being caused by the combined use of chai hu formulae and interferon.

Large dosages and/or long term usage can be toxic to kidneys.

有將 柴胡製劑與干擾素併用，引發間質性肺炎而死亡的案例。

大劑 量或長期服用可能對 腎臟有毒。

Fried chai hu: put chai hu pieces in frying pan and fry to slightly charred. Aged wine or wheat bran can also be added for the stir-frying. After stir frying, the characteristics of the herb will be not be so cold and can enhance the yang characteristics of the body when taken. Jiu chai hu (wine treated chai hu) can enhance blood circulation, and enhance yang function.

Cu chao chai hu (vinegar stir fried chai hu): Mix chai hu slicess with vinegar (chai hu 100 kg to 10 kg), let sit for a short time, and set the pot and the mixture on the stove and gently stir-fry until slightly charred. Spread out to dry. After this process, cu chai hu is known for entering the liver channel and also in arresting pain.

Soft shell turtle blood chai hu: Evenly mix chai hu slices with soft shell turtle blood and rice wine (100 Kg of turtle blood and 150 Kg of rice wine). Stir. Pan fry till dry. Take out and spread out to air cool. After this process, the function of the herb is enhanced in its antipyretic effect in nourishing yin and removing heat, ridding of malaria, removing lumps, especially effective for liver stagnation with yin deficient, particularly appropriate gu zhen lao re condition.

Ruan chai hu (soft chai hu): after harvesting the above ground stems and leaves, removing the old stalks, dry, tie into bundle, it is sold as ruan chai hu (soft Bupleurum) also call miao chai hu (sprout Bupleurum).
 

炒柴胡： 以柴胡片於鍋中清炒至微焦為度，亦可加陳酒或麩皮拌炒，炒後可避其涼性，而增升舉清陽之效。 酒柴胡增強活血，升陽通經作用。

醋炒柴胡： 取柴胡片，用米醋拌勻(柴胡100公斤用米醋10公斤)，稍悶，置鍋內用文火炒至略見焦斑時，取出攤開晾干收貯。經製後獨入肝經 ，增強舒肝和血、止痛之功。

鱉血柴胡： 取柴胡片用鱉血和黃酒拌勻(每公斤柴胡，用鱉血100克與黃酒150克和勻稀釋後拌柴胡)，入鍋內用文火炒干。取出攤晾收貯，炮 制後增強其滋陽退熱作用，能養陰制瘧，消痞塊，對肝郁而陰虧者尤宜應用，適用於骨蒸勞熱等症。

軟柴胡：收割地上莖葉，去掉老莖稈，晒乾，捆扎成把，即為軟柴胡（苗柴胡）


Search this 
    site 


Problems with website? Please 



Click 
    here for comment. (Not for inquiry )    
    


Click 
    here for inquiry 





Copyright Notice 

按此看關於版權問題




Sponsors' Ads by Google 
    以下為谷歌 所提供之廣告


A manuscript... writing, translating and proofreading  in progress








List 
        of Health Problems




Qigong 
        (chi kung)




Toxicity of Some Herbs



Side Effect of Some Herbs



Herbs that can be toxic to kidneys




        Traditional Chinese Medicine
 


TCM Diagnosis
 



        Samples of Formulae




        Terms of Traditional Chinese Medicine



        Acupuncture





copy right
 


版權所有




Qigong classes




        Prescribed Drug Dictionary




        Email our web master for  your suggestion (not for inquiry)



Biochemistry Dictionary



 



Qigong 
        classes

 



Research Librarian

 



 



Home




        Weather Report




        Disclaimer


Last update: Jan 13, 2016; 12:06 
        a.m. LAH





 








