dang gui, side effects, drug interaction, toxicity and caution, Complementary and Alternative Healing UniversityComplementary and Alternative Healing University   中藥詞典    Chinese Herb Dictionary      Search this site     在本網站找資料 See more menu at the bottom of page dang gui   當歸 Translated and edited by: Joe Hing Kwok Chu 朱興國编譯 Click on the thumb nail figure to enlarge picture. Pharmaceutical name:英文藥名：Radix Angelicae sinensisBiological name:拉丁名：Angelica polymorpha Maxim. var sinensis  Olive;Angelica polymorpha Max.Ligusticum acutilobum, S. et Z. (ma wei dang gui 馬尾當歸)Ligusticum ibukiene, Yabe.(chan tou dang gui 饞 頭當歸 )Ligusticum japonium, Max.(cao dang gui 草 當歸 )Pron. in Japanese:日 語發音：tokiPron. in Korean:韓語發音：tanggwiPron. in Cantonese:粤語發音： dong1 gwai1Common Name:英文名：Chinese angelica root   (commonly written as: tong kwai, dong quai)Distribution:分 佈：Gansu, Sichuan, Shaanxi, Hubei甘肅，四川，陝西，湖北等省。Properties (characteristics):性味:sweet, acrid, bitter, warm甘 ，辛，溫。Channels (meridians) entered:歸經:heart, liver, spleen channels肝﹐心﹐脾經Actions & Indications:臨床應用:Tonic for blood and for regulating the menses, lubricates bowels to correct constipation, reduces swelling, expels pus, relieves pain. Dang gui wei (tail) is being used in condition of blood stasis and clots.血 虛 ， 月經不調 ， 痛經 ，經閉，崩漏，子宮出血 ； 風濕痛 ；  腸燥便秘 ； 痛腫疽毒 。當歸尾用於治跌打損傷。Medical Function:藥理: Medical Function:1. effects on uterus: experiments showed that it can have inhibiting and stimulating effects on uterus (outside the bodies ) of lab animals.2. effects on blood: lowers lipids, anti platelet coagulation, and promotes production of red cells.3. effects on circulatory system: tests showed that it can dilate the coronary arteries of guinea pigs and improve circulation volume. It can protect rat with arrhythmia.4. anti oxidation and rid of free radicals5. anti injuries of radiation6. improve immune system7. anti cancer:  Research showed using the five polysaccharides of ming xian dang gui inhibited the EC, Hep, S180, Lewis B16 inplanted tumors of rats up to 39%. It has little side effects and can be used for long period of time. (But there are also reports that mention frequent ingesting of ginseng and dang gui may promote the multiplying of breast cancer cells. Chinese site)8. anti inflammatory9. protects digestive system (including liver)Used alone, dang qui does not produce estrogen-like responses in endometrial thickness or in vaginal maturation and was no more helpful than placebo in relieving menopausal symptoms.[a]extract of huang qi and dang gui (3:1) showed it can suppress breast cancer cells 藥 理:１：對子宮作用 對離體動物子宮有興奮和抑制作用。２：血液系統 可以降血脂，降低血小板凝集和抗血拴作用，又可促進血紅蛋白和紅血球的生成。  ３：心血管系統 可擴大離體豚鼠冠狀動脈，可使其血流量增加。對大鼠心律失常有保護作用。     ４：抗氧化和清除自由基５：對抗輻射損傷作用 6 ﹕對免疫系統的影響 7 ﹕抗癌腫作用 ﹕對岷縣當歸的五種多 糖進行小鼠體內抗腫瘤藥物篩選。結果表明﹐上述多糖對小鼠移植性腫 瘤 EC, Hep, S180, Lewis B16等瘤株具有一定程度的仰制作用﹐ 可達39%﹐副作用少﹐並可長期用藥。 (但是澳 洲醫學界研究發現，常食人參及當歸會加速乳癌細胞分裂) 8：抗炎陣痛及抗損傷作用 9：對消化系統(與肝臟)保護作用單獨使用時，當歸不會產生雌激素樣之影響子宮內膜的厚度，或影響陰道老化作用。並不比安慰劑緩解更年期症狀更有效。[a]黃芪配當歸(3:1) 的提取物能抑制乳癌的細胞。[b]Dosage:用 量：10 to 15 g per day in decoction.入煎剤：每天10～15克。Chemical ingredients:               化 學成份：Essential oil: b-pinene, camphene, P-cymene, b-phellandrene, myrcene, b-ocimene-X, allo-ocimene, 6-n-butyl-cycloheptadiene-1,4, 2-methyl-dodecane-5-one, acetophenone, b-bisabolene, isoacroraene, acoradiene, chamigrene, a-cedrene, n-butyl-tetrahydrophthalide, n-butyl-phthalide [1,2], n- butylidene-phthialide, ligustilide, d-2,4-dihydrohpthalic anhydride [6],dodecanol, bergapten[7]Oil with Phenol Characteristics: P-methyl-benzolcohol, 5-methoxyl-2,3-dicresol [1], phenol, O-cresol, P-cresol, guaiacol, 2,3-dieresol, P-ehtyl phenol, O-eethyl phenol, 4-ethyl resorcinol, 2,4-dihydroacetophenone, carvacrol, isoeugenol, vanillin [2].Oil with Acid Characteristics: phthalic anhydride, azelaic acid, sebacie acid, anisic acid, myristic acid, camphoric acid, dimethyl phthalate, dimethyl aelate, dimethyl sebacate, dimehtyl anisae, dimethyl myristate, dimethyl camphorate, n-valerophenone-o-carboxylic acid [6].Organic Acid: ferulic acid, succinic acid, nicotinic acid, vanillic acid, n-tetracosanoic acid, palmitic acid [10].Sugar: sucrose[11], fructose, glucose[9], arabigalactan,Vitamin: 0.25~40 mg/100g of vitamin B12, 0.0675% of  vitamin A.Animo Acid: 17 types of animo acid.[8,13]Inorganic elements: 20 kinds of inorganic elements. Among them 16 kinds are needed by human body, like calcium, zinc, phosphorous, and selenium.Akaline: uracil, adenine, choline.[8]Other: stigmasterol, sitosterol, stigmaterol-D-glucoside, tetradecanol-1, scopletin [9],6-methoxyl-7-hydroxycoumarin, angelicide and brefelclin A[10] ,phytoestrogens. Present Day Applications:                             Present Day Applications:For treatment of :1. stroke due to lack of blood circulation [1]. Methods:(1) 30 patients using 25% dang gui injection solution, once per day, intra venous feeding, 200 ~ 300 ml per day, 15 or 30 days per therapy period.10 patients using 80 ~ 160 ml per day, 10 ~ 20 days per therapy period. Total 40 patients.Results:Basically healed: 12.Improved greatly: 13Improved: 11Ineffective: 4(2) 50 patients using 25% dang gui injection solution 200 ml per day, intra venous feeding, once per day, 20 days per therapy period.Results:Obviously effective: 13Got better: 9Ineffective: 3Circulation improved: 94% in total.[2]2. sickle cell anemia [2]. (Methods to be loaded).3. arrhythmia [4]. (Methods to be loaded).4. phlebitis due to thrombosis [5]. (Methods to be loaded).5. hardening of arteries of the brain [7]. (Methods to be loaded).6. chronic thrombosis of the lung and high pressure of the lung arteries. [11]. (Methods to be loaded).7. tip of breast bone syndromes [9]. (Methods to be loaded).8. hypertension [11]. (Methods to be loaded).9. headache:Methods: using 20% dang gui solution for injection into shu xue (points) at the back of the bodies and in 30 minutes the plasma DBH became obviously lowered. [11] Total patients: 50. (27 patients were of vasomotor dysfunction, and 23 patients were of neuropathy.10. liver diseases11. acute kidney infection12. bleeding of upper digestive tract13. chronic constipation14. fissure of anus15. pain during menses16. prolapse of uterus17. inflammation of pelvic area18. pain caused by abortion19. enuresis20. inflammation of penis21. inflammation of surface vein22. inflammation of shoulders23. inflammation of soft ribs24. pain in lower back and legs25. pain after chest surgery26. joints of jaw dysfunction27. herpes shingles28. rash and measles29. psoriasis: Using 2% dang gui solution and 2% Procaine 4 ml each, once a day, for 30 days, for xue location injections. According to diagnostics, select he gu, qu chi, fei shu, gan shu, wei shu, zhang men, tian xu, zhu san li, san yin jiao etc. Result: total patients: 100. Healed: 84. Obvious improvement 9. Improved 7. Follow up investigation in 6 months to 4 years. Five patience had relapses.[37]30. dang gui jin you wan is made from the dang gui essential oil of ligustilide (藁本內酯 ). For < 12 years old, taking 100 mg and for adults taking 150 mg, 3 times a day, for 7 days, total of 57 patients, produced good results:Obviously effective: 74.5%Total of effective result: 90.2%It did not have obvious side effects. Those who were not effective in the treatment had swelling of the air sacs of the lungs and had cardio-pulmonary diseases. In general, the asthma syndromes subsided in 2 to 3 hours after taking the medicine. The wheezing sound started to subside within 8 to 24 hours. Its effect on asthma is slow and stable. It is obvious in comparing before and after treatment on circulation and airflow capacity. It is suitable for during breakout of mild to serious condition. [44]31. (writing in progress)32.33.34.35. Sudden deafness36. bronchial asthma37. inflammation of the stomach, ulcers of duodenum and stomach.38. limb paralysis of toddlers39. undesirable effects(Methods of therapies to be loaded).Samples of formulae:處 方舉例：ba zhen tang 八珍湯dang gui jian zhong tang 當歸健中湯dang gui long hui wan 當歸龍薈丸gui pi tang 歸脾湯,jiao ai tang膠艾湯,Li Dong Yuan qing feng san 李東垣清風散,tuo hua jian 脫花煎sheng hua tang,    生化湯shi quan da bu tang﹐十全大補湯,si wu tang四物湯,formulae for ideopathic thrombocytopenia purpura (ITP)Cautions:禁忌：Do not use in case of damp is high with fullness/flatulence and chronic diarrhea. See yeast infection.Some women after menopause or some men do not tolerate long term usage or large dosages.Over cooking may lessen the effectiveness because of the evaporating oil. 因本品有揮發油，故不耐久煎。久煎可减低藥效。濕盛中滿，大便泄瀉者忌服 。看帶 下，白 色念珠菌感染。   [a] DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0015-0282(97)00397-X[b] doi: 10.1155/2013/728258. Epub 2013 May 30.  Editor note:  DBHdopamine b-hydroxylase: Higher serum levels of DBH enzyme have been reported in migraine patients during the migraine attacks. Significantly increased DBH enzyme activity has been observed in migraine patients during the headache-free interval which can lead to migraine attacks. shu xuexue means cave, indentation, or points (in this case). All points on the channels (meridians) are call xue. Those xue that can reflect the organs are usually called shu and most of the shu xue are located on the bladder channels.   sheng hua tang (source: Fu Shi Gynecology) For unable to dispel clot blood after birth with pain in the lower abdomen.ingredients: dang gui  chuan xiong,  tao ren, he jiang (dark baked ginger), zhi gan cao. 生化湯《傅氏女科》：當歸﹐川 芎﹐桃仁﹐黑 薑，炙草。治產後惡露不行，少腹疼 痛。 偽品為歐當歸 Levisticum Officinale Koch ，東當歸 Ligusticum acutilobum Sieb. Et Zucc ，興安白芷 A. dahurica (Fisch. Ex Hoffm.) Benth. Et Hook. f. ，雲南野當歸 。 Back to Action and Indication [n] for bibliography consult Research LibrarianSearch this siteProblems with website? Please Click here for comment. (Not for inquiry )    Click here for inquiryCopyright Notice 按此看關於版權問題Sponsors' Ads by Google 以下為谷歌 所提供之廣告A manuscript... writing, translating and proofreading  in progressMenu: List of Health ProblemsQigong (chi kung)Toxicity of Some HerbsSide Effect of Some HerbsHerbs that can be toxic to kidneysTraditional Chinese Medicine TCM Diagnosis Samples of FormulaeTerms of Traditional Chinese MedicineAcupunctureChinese Herb DictionaryQigong classesPrescribed Drug DictionaryEmail our web master for  your suggestion (not for inquiry)Biochemistry Dictionary Qigong classes Research Librarian copy right 版權所有HomeWeather ReportDisclaimerLast update: June 8, 2016; 5 p.m. LAH   