ge jie




Complementary and Alternative Healing 
    University 
 





中藥詞典    Chinese Herb Dictionary    
     


Search this 
    site    
    在本網站找資料





　
ge jie (gecko) 蛤蚧Translated and edited by: Joe Hing Kwok Chu
Pharmaceutical name:英文药名：GeckoZoological name:拉丁動物學名：Gekko gecko;Phrynosoma cornuta Horned toadPron. in Japanese:日語發音：gokaiPron. in Korean:韓語發音：hapkae Pron. in Cantonese:粤語發音：gap3 gaai3Common Name:英文名：geckoDistribution:分佈：Guangxi, Guangdong, Shanxi, Yunna, Jiangsu provinces of China. Vietnam, Thailand and other parts of Indo-China, and Indonesia. Geckos  from Guilin of Guangxi are considered the best.廣西，廣東，山西，云南，江蘇等省，越南，泰國 與其他中南半島地區。廣西桂林産的認為最好。Properties (characteristics)salty, neutral, slightly toxic性 咸 ， 平 。 有 小 毒 。Channels (meridians) entered:lung, kidney入 肺 、 腎 經 。Actions & Indications:tonifies kidneys and the lungs: in wheezing, consumptive cough or cough with blood in sputum, impotence, correct shenyangxu (kidney deficient).補肺，腎。用於百日咳，肺痨咳嗽，咳痰有血，陽萎，腎陽虚。Medical Function:
The extract of ge jie possesses the effect of inhibition 
    toward the growth of  liver cancer cell of HepG02. 
[2]
對肝癌HepG-2 細胞的生長有抑制作用。【2】Chemical ingredients:　Meat contains:肉含：carnosine肌肽choline膽鹼carnitine肉毒鹼guanine鳥嘌呤protein蛋白質fat脂肪Liver contains:肝含：metyl thiophosphorsäureester甲基對硫酮methyl　parathion GSH S-methyl transferase還原性谷胱甘肽-S-甲基轉移 酶glutathion谷胱甘肽Thyroids contain:甲狀腺含：thyroxine甲狀腺素iodotyrosine碘酪氨酸Dosage:用量：3 to 7 g as powder; 9 to 15 g in decoction.粉剤：3∼7克。湯剤：9∼15克。Samples of formulae:處方舉例：to be loadedModern Research:現代研究：It has a weak androgen effect  on the prostates and testes of mice;  and increase the weight of testes and their mating period.對小鼠有雄激素作用於前列腺，睾丸。增加睾丸重量。延長交尾期。Cautions:禁忌：not to use in case of wheezing and coughing from cold or flu infection due to acute infection.See below on counterfeits.有 熱 症 兼 火 盛 忌 用 。市場上所賣的很多是假貨。【1】
[1] http://www.yxlw.org/html/yao/fangji/20090906/23284.html
[2] Nanning, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Cancer 
    Prevention Institute "
    , Guangxi Medical University Graduate School
[2] 南宁,
    广西壮族自治区肿瘤防治研究所", 
广西医科大学研究生学院Pharmacognostic Identification of Gecko (Gekko gecko ) and  Its Counterfeits on Characteristics of Crude  Drug and Original Animal of 18 SamplesZhu Hua Guangxi College of TCM, Nanning 530001 China Ren Renan Nanjing University of TCM, Nanjing 210029 ChinaAbstract　Objective: To identify medicinal material Gecko and its counterfeits. Methods: The commodity Gecko were investigated and 18 samples of different kinds commercial Gecko were collected from markets in China . Their characteristics of crude drug and original animal were measured and compared. Results: Of all the 18 samples, 2 were Gecko (Gekko gecko L.) and 16 were its counterfeits. Conclusion: There are many Gecko counterfeits in the markets of China. They can be identified by examining their appearance, characteristic of crude drug and original animal, according to the above results of studies. Key Words: Gecko; Gekko gecko; Identification; Counterfeit Material; Pharmacognosy; Gecko Characteristic


Search this 
    site 


Problems with website? Please 

Click 
    here for comment. (Not for inquiry )    
    


Click 
    here for inquiry 



Copyright Notice 

按此看關於版權問題




Sponsors' Ads by Google 
    以下為谷歌 所提供之廣告



A manuscript... writing, translating and proofreading  in progress








List 
        of Health Problems




Qigong 
        (chi kung)




Toxicity of Some Herbs



Side Effect of Some Herbs



Herbs that can be toxic to kidneys




        Traditional Chinese Medicine
　


TCM Diagnosis
　



        Samples of Formulae




        Terms of Traditional Chinese Medicine



        Acupuncture





copy right
　


版權所有




Qigong classes




        Prescribed Drug Dictionary




        Email our web master for  your suggestion (not for inquiry)



Biochemistry Dictionary



　



Qigong 
        classes

　



Research Librarian

　



　



Home




        Weather Report




        Disclaimer


Last update: Aug 17, 
        2014; 9:29 p.m. LAH





　








