royal jelly ,Complementary and Alternative Healing University
Complementary and Alternative Healing University 
  中藥詞典                 Chinese Herb Dictionary      Search this site     在本網站找資料Search this siteList of Health ProblemsChinese Herb DictionaryQigongTraditional Chinese Medicine (TCM)AcupuncturePrescribed Drug DictionaryBiochemistry DictionaryLecture SlidesResearch LibrarianGeneral Online LibrarySearchResearch SitesViagraMassage/AcupressureHypnotherapyTell us what you wantNotify Changes & New Information　　　                 　      　　    　　　  royal bee jelly 蜂皇漿                  (in English and Chinese 中英文)Compiled and translated by: Joe Hing kwok Chu 朱興國編譯Pharmaceutical name:英文藥名﹕lac regis apisBotanical name:學名﹕1.Apis cerana Fabr (中華蜜蜂，Chinese bees)2.Apis mellifera L. (意大利蜜蜂，Italian bees)Pron. in Japanese:日語發音﹕Hachi nyūshō (蜂乳漿); honyu (蜂 乳)Pron. in Korean:韓語發音﹕bong yu (蜂 乳)Pron. in Cantonese::粵音﹕fung1 wong4 zeong4Other Names:別名﹕feng ru jiang 蜂乳漿，wang jiang 王漿Common Name:外文名﹕Apis mellifera, Bee Saliva, Bee Spit,  Honey Bee Milk, Honey Bee's Milk,   Royal Bee Jelly.German: Gel嶪 RoyaleFrench: Lait des AbeillesSpanish: Jalea RealDistribution:產地﹕ Properties(characteristics)﹕性味﹕甘，酸，平。sweet, sour, neutral.Channels (meridians) entered: 歸經﹕spleen, liver, kidney.脾，肝，腎。Medical functions:藥理﹕  It can be used as an auxiliary medicine to lower blood sugar. It contains insulin-like peptides. anti-oxidant effect. Its superoxide dismutase (SOD) is the main component of the antioxidant .it can lower blood lipids.it can dilate blood vessels, thus reducing blood pressure.Because it contains ω-Hydroxy-2-deecnoic acid ( royal jelly acid ) as well as the major royal jelly protein-1 . protect the liver. Royal jelly can not only kill the virus , and to inhibit viral replication in the liver cells.anti-bacterial , anti-inflammatory: Royal jelly has antibacterial and promotes wound infections  healing effect. Tests also showed that royal jelly antibacterial spectrum includes E. coli, Salmonella typhi, Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus , Proteus , Bacillus subtilis, Mycobacterium tuberculosis , star dermatophytes such as Trichophyton and epidermis . Antibacterial and anti-inflammatory effect of royal jelly is pH related. When the pH is 4.5, it has the strongest antibacterial; and at pH 7 , the antimicrobial weakened; at  pH 8 , the antibacterial disappear. In natural condition, the Ph of royal jelly is between  3.5 to 4.5 , therefore , in the natural situation , it has the strongest antibacterial and anti-inflammatory effect .1、 輔助降低血糖。因其含有的胰島素樣肽類  2、 抗氧化功效。其超氧化物歧化酶（SOD）是抗氧化的主要成分。  3、 降低血脂。4、  
  擴張血管、降低血壓。5、 因含的10-羥基－癸烯酸（王漿酸）以及王漿主要蛋白-1,，保護肝臟。蜂王漿不僅能夠殺滅肝炎病毒，並且能抑制病毒在肝臟細胞內複製。  6、抗菌、消炎。蜂王漿有抗菌和對傷口感染具有促進癒合的作用。試驗也表明，蜂王漿的抗菌譜為大腸桿菌、金黃色葡萄球傷寒桿菌、鏈球菌、變形桿菌、枯草桿 菌、結核桿菌、星狀髮癬菌和表皮癬菌等。蜂王漿的抗菌消炎作用與pH有關。當pH為4.5時抗菌最強，pH為7時，抗菌性減弱，pH為8時，抗菌性消失。 蜂王漿的pH為3.5～4.5之間，因此，在天然的狀況下，它的抗菌消炎性最強。　　Actions & Indications:主治﹕Nourishing; strengthening the body; benefiting the liver; improving digestion. For post sickness weakness; malnutrition in children; weakness due to old age; leukopenia; persistent and chronic hepatitis; duodenal ulcer; bronchial asthma; diabetes; blood diseases; psychosis; functional uterine bleeding; irregular menses; functional infertility and alopecia. [1]Clinical application [3]① treatment of acute infectious hepatitis  Oral 1% royal jelly honey ( mixture of royal jelly and honey ).  Dosage:  4 years old and under: 5 g ,  5 to 10 years old: 10 g ,  10 years old and older 20 grams.  1 dose per day. Make into 2 servings , 20 days is a therapy period, Take it for 3 periods.  Result of Treatment of 22 cases , a variety of symptoms significantly improved in three to 14 days. Livers significantly shrunk in about three weeks. In about 10 days , serum transaminases reduced 40 units or more, or return to normal, a variety of other laboratory tests significantly improved in 9 to 18 days . It had good effect in improving liver function.  But in the application process, we found a few cases of increase of absolute eosinophilic count , sinus arrhythmia ( including one case and escape ) , rash , diarrhea and other reactions.  ② treatment of chronic rheumatoid arthritis Dosage: 400 mg daily dose , Took daily for 3 to 6 months.  Result: Preliminary observations in 28 cases,  significant improved ( general condition improved significantly alleviate joint pain ) , 7 cases.  Improved ( improve in the general condition , slightly relieve joint pain ) 3 cases. Stabilized ( the same general condition before treatment , joint pain , no improvement , but no sharp attack ) in 10 cases,  Ineffective: 8 cases . Usually after serving 3 to 4 weeks began to show effect , only a few need to effect only occurs in 6-7 weeks . Found no adverse reactions during the medication , between dry mouth , headache , dry stools , etc., but in the short term that go away.③ used in neural psychiatric diseases Neurology treatment: 16 cases of progressive muscular dystrophy , 300 to 600 mg daily for two weeks to three months or more. Result: significant progress in 8 cases, one case of mild progress .  Psychiatric treatment; 9 cases of schizophrenia, dementia, paralysis , menopausal depression, neurosis and mental retardation. Started daily oral 100 mg and gradually increased to 800 mg ( each up to 400 mg each time ) . 6 to 10 weeks of medication , with total dosage of 19200 mg to 30600 mg . Results of the therapy: 1 case was obviously brightened up, 2 cases resulted in mental alert , 1 case of those with mental retardation became more obedient , the other five cases showed no progress.滋補；強壯；益肝；健脾。主病後虛弱；小兒營養不良；老年體衰；白細胞減少症；遷 延性及慢性肝炎；十二指腸潰瘍；支氣管 哮喘；糖尿病；血液病；精神病；子宮功能性出血；月經不調；功能性不孕症及禿發等[1]【臨床應用】[3] ①治療急性傳染性肝炎  口服1％王漿蜂蜜（由王漿與蜂蜜調和而成），4歲以下5克，5～10歲10克，10歲以上20克。每日1劑，2次分服，20天為一療程，連服三療程。治療22例 ，各種症狀在3～14天內明顯好轉，肝臟在3周左右顯著縮小，血清轉氨酶在10天左右下降40單位以上或恢復正常，其他各種實驗室檢查在9～18天內顯著 好轉。對肝功能的改善有良好的作用。但在應用過程中，發現少數病例有嗜酸性細胞絕對數較前增加，竇性心律不齊（其中1例兼逸搏）、皮疹、腹瀉等反應。  ②治療慢性期風濕樣關節炎  每日服王漿400毫克，連服3～6個月。初步觀察28例，顯著進步者（全身情況改善，關節疼痛顯著減輕）7例，進步者（全身情況改善，關節疼痛略減輕）3例 ，穩定者（全身情況與治療前相同，關節疼痛無改善，但無急劇發作）10例，無效者8例。一般在服後第3～4周開始生效，僅少數需在6～7周才發生療效。服 藥期間未發現不良反應，間有口干，頭痛、大便干燥等，但短期內即自行消失。  ③應用於神經精神病科疾病  神經科治療16例進行性肌營養不良症，每日300～600毫克。服半個月至3個月以上；其中顯著進步8例，輕度進步1例。精神病科治療精神分裂症、麻痺性 痴呆、更年期抑郁症、神經官能症及精神發育不全共9例，開始每日服100毫克，每1周後增加劑量，漸增至每日800毫克（每次最多400毫克），服藥6～10周 ，總量19200毫克～30600毫克。結果情況明顯活躍者1例，精神振作者2例，精神發育不全較以前聽話者1例，餘5例無進步。Chemical ingredients: [2]化學成份﹕[2],The average moisture content is 67%平均含水分67%ash 0.82%灰分0.82%protein 12.2%蛋白質12.2%fat 5.46%脂肪5.46%reducing subtances 12.49%還原性物質總量12.49%unknown substances 2.84%未知物質2.84%5 kinds of sugars: fructose,glucose, sucrose, and ribose, and one unknown5種糖，其中4種是果糖、萄糖、蔗糖及核糖。ω-Hydroxy-2-deecnoic acid, a fatty acid王漿酸(或稱為ω-羥基△2-癸烯酸)Vitamins:維生素：B1其中B1含量穩定B2B2its amoujnt of vitamin B, fluctuate daily其它B族維生素，每日可有較大的波動when lavae have developed to 72 hours, the royal jelly contains a minute amount of Vitamine A幼蟲發育到72小時時，王漿中含微量的維 生素 Acontains free biotin and biotin compound含游離及結合的生物素pantothenic acid (vitamin B5)泛酸 (維生素B5)pyridoxine (vitamin B6)吡哆醇 (維生素B6)vitamin B12維生素B12folic acid  (vitamin B9)葉酸 (維生素B9)inositol  (vitamin B8)肌酵 (維生素B8)6-Biopterin (2-Amino-4-hydroxy-6(L-erythro-1，2- dihydroxypropyl)-pteridine)生物喋呤; (2-氨 基-4-輕基-6(L-赤-1，2-二襲基丙基)-喋啶)flavin adenine dinucleotide黃素腺膘呤二核甙酸flavin mononucleotide黃素單核甙酸kynurenine犬尿素the protein that royal jelly contains:所含蛋白質有:albumin白蛋白β and γ globulinβ及γ球蛋白insoluble protein不溶性蛋白質acetylcholine乙醯膽鹼fat that royal jelly contains:所含油脂類有:stearin硬脂酸甘油phospholipid磷脂adenine nucleotides type of substances腺嘌呤核苷酸(腺苷酸 AMP) 類似物質arginine精氨酸aspartic acid天冬氨酸glutamic acid谷氨酸lysine賴氨酸proline脯氨酸β-alanine, etcβ-丙氨酸等Dosage:用 量﹕To take orally: use 50-200 mg with luke warm boiled water.[1]內服：溫開水沖，50-200 mg。[1]Physical and chemical examination :理化鑒別﹕Physical and chemical identification : (1) Ph should be 3.5-4.8. (2) A halogen moisture analyzer can be used to quickly determine that water content. It should  not contain more than 70% of water. (3) with a lit match close to the royal jelly, there should be no brown particles melting rapidly (for checking wax). Moisten a glass rod  with iodine test solution. Coat with a small amount of royal jelly across the white porcelain plate then scratch with the glass rod. The scratch marks should not be obviously blue, green or red-brown (for checking starch) (4) Take a little test tube using a small amount of royal jelly diluted with distilled water, stir, add few drops of Fehling's reagent test solution, slightly boil in water bath for 1-2 minutes, remove and examine. It should not show red or reddish brown (for checking honey). 理化鑒別:（1）Ph應為3.5-4.8。 （2）用快速鹵素水分測定法測定，含水量不得大於70%。 （3）用點燃的火柴接近蜂乳，應無黃褐色顆粒迅速速熔化（檢查蠟片）。 用蘸有碘試液的玻棒，劃過涂有少量蜂乳的白瓷板上，劃痕處不得顯藍色、綠色或紅褐色（檢查澱粉類。 （4）取蜂乳少許置試管中用少量蒸餾水稀釋攪勻，加斐林試液數滴，水浴上微沸1-2min，取出觀察，不得變紅或紅棕色（檢查蜂蜜）。Modern Research:現代研究﹕ Toxicity & Cautions:毒素與禁忌﹕not to use in cases of diarrhea due to infection. Use whith care while pregnant. [1] Do not use  of while breast feeding.濕熱瀉痢者禁服，孕婦慎服。[1]  懷孕或授乳時忌用。[1] [2] Zhong Hua Ben Cao  中華本草[3] Zhong Yao Da Ci Dian 中藥大辭典生物素（Biotin）為維生素B群之一，又稱維生 素H、維生素B7、輔酶R（Coenzyme R）等Note: Fehling's solution is aqueous solution of copper sulfate, sodium hydroxide, and potassium sodium tartrate used to test for the presence of sugars and aldehydes in a substance, such as urine. Problems with website? Please Click here for comment. (Not for inquiry )     Click here for inquiry    Ads by Google:   A manuscript... writing, translating and proofreading  in progress  Copyright Notice 按此看關於 版權問題List of Health ProblemsChinese Herb DictionaryToxicity of Some HerbsSide Effect of Some HerbsHerbs that can be toxic to kidneysTraditional Chinese Medicine TCM Diagnosis Samples of FormulaeTerms of Traditional Chinese MedicineAcupuncturecopy right 版權所有Qigong (chi kung)Prescribed Drug DictionaryEmail our web master for  your suggestion (not for inquiry)Biochemistry DictionaryGeneral Online LibraryQigong classesFake Email WarningResearch LibrarianSearchQigong classesDisclaimerHomeWeather ReportLast update: Dec 30, 2013; 10 a.m. LAH  
