xian ling pi, yin yang huo, Epimedium grandiflorum, Complementary and Alternative Healing University





Complementary and Alternative Healing 
    University 
 





中藥詞典    Chinese Herb Dictionary    
     


Search this 
    site    
    在本網站找資料





 

    See more menu at the 
    bottom of page 
 
xian ling pi 仙靈脾         
  (in English and 
  Chinese 中英文)yin yang huo 淫羊藿Edited by: Joe Hing Kwok Chu

Pharmaceutical name:英 文藥名：
Herba EpimediiBiological name:拉 丁名：
Epimedium grandiflorum Morr.,
Epimedium brevicornum Maxim.,
Epimedium sagittatum (Sieb. et Zucc.) Maxim.,
Epimedium pubescens Maxim.,
Epimedium wushanense T. S. Ying,
Epimedium koreanum NakaiPron. in Japanese：日語發音:
inyokaku, also called 碇草Pron. in Korean：韓語發音：:
umyanggwakPron. in Cantonese:粵語發音：
sin1 ling4 pei4 (仙靈脾）； jam4 jeong4 fok4 (淫羊藿）Common Name:
epimedium, horny goat weed.Distribution:分布：
Shaanxi, Liaoning, Shanxi, Hubei, Sichuan.
陜西，遼寧，山西，湖北，四川。Properties (characteristics)：性味：
Acrid, sweet, warm
辛，苷，溫。Channels (meridians) entered:歸經：
Kidney, Liver
入 肝 ﹐ 腎 經Actions & Indications:主治：
Tonifies the kidneys and fortifies the yang: for shenyangxu (kidney yang deficient) patterns with such symptoms as impotence, spermatorrhea, frequent urination , forgetfulness, withdrawal, and painful cold lower back and knees.
Expels wind-damp-cold: for wind-damp-cold painful obstruction (pain and water retention) with such symptoms as spasms or cramps in the hands and feet, joint pain, and numbness in the extremities due to bad circulation.
Tonifies the yin and yang and harnesses liver yang ascending, for lower back pain, dizziness, and menstrual irregularity from deficiency of liver and kidneys (shenxu) and subsequent causes liver yang ascending, (gan yang).
Hypertension during menopause.陽 萎 早 泄，腰膝痿弱， 風濕痺痛，筋骨攣急，半身不遂，神經衰弱，健忘症, 肝 陽 上 昇﹐婦 女 更 年 期 高 血 壓 。Medical Function[2]:藥理：【2】
Medical Function:

Improves endocrine system. Improve axle: hypothalamus, pituitary,  sex hormones and adrenal cortex .
 Improves DNA metabolism.
 Improves immune system.
 Anti-aging effect.
Improves effect of nitrogen oxide in dilating the blood vessels
 Improves circulatory system.  a. Improve function of the heart. b. Lower blood pressure by dilution of peripheral blood vessels.
Improves blood flow to the penis and causes erection
 Improves the blood system. a.. Prevent platelet coagulation.  b. Lower viscosity of the blood. c. Improve production of white blood cells.
 Improves ability to resist lack of oxygen.
 Anti-inflammatory, anti-histamine
Anti-bacterial. 
Lowers lipoprotein and cholesterol.
 It inhibits asthma caused by increased histamine.
 Small amount: promotes urination
 Large amount: inhibits urination
Reduces the number of estrogen receptors, prevent spreading of cancer cells, and destroy cancer cells.
 Prevents and reverses bone loss
Antibiotic effect: inhibit polio virus and Staphylococcus aureus.

Improves production of the cell DNA of bone marrows 
        of mice with 
yangxu (yang deficient) 
 and can promotes bone cell production.

 


        改善內分泌系統。提高下丘腦，垂體，至性激素和腎上腺皮質之軸。

        提高DNA的新陳代謝。

        提高免疫系統。

        抗衰老的作用。

        提高在擴張血管的氮氧化物的效果

        改善循環系統。a.改善心臟功能。b. 降低血壓稀釋末梢血管。

        改善血液流向陰莖並導致勃起

        改善血液系統。a...防止血小板凝結。b. 血粘度較低。 c.提高生產的白血細胞。

        提高抵抗缺氧的能力。
抗炎，抗組胺

抗菌。


        降低脂蛋白和膽固醇。

        它抑制由組胺增高哮喘。

        對排尿之作用：用少量可促進排尿。如用大量能抑制排尿

        降低雌激素受體的數量，

        防止癌細胞擴散，並破壞癌細胞。

        阻止和逆轉骨質流失

        抗生素後效應：抑制病毒脊髓灰質炎和金黃色葡萄球菌。
提高了陽虛的小鼠生產骨髓的細胞的DNA，促進骨細胞的生產。
 

Chemical ingredients:化學成分：
The main ingredients are flavone type of compounds, fat, saponins and essential oil.
Ceryl alcohol, hentriacontane, phytosterol, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, bilobanol, magnoflorin, glucose, fructose, icariin, icariside I ), Icariside II (epimedoside A).
 Epimedin A, Epimedin B, Epimedin C, Epimedokoreanoside I, Epimedokoreanoside II, Epimedoside A, I-karisoside A, (quercetin), 4'-methoxy-5-hydroxy-8-3, 3-dimethylallylflavone-3-glucosyl (1--2) rhamnoside-7-glucoside), 4'-methoxy-5-hydroxy-8-3, 3-dimethylallylflavone-3-xylosyl (1--2) rhamnoside-7-glucoside), 4'-methoxy-5-hydroxy-8-3, 3-dimethylallylflavone-3-rham-nosyl (1--2) rhamnoside-7-glucoside.
Isoquercetin, icaritin-3-O-α-rhamnoside, hyperin, sagittatoside A, sagittatoside B, sagittatoside C, sagittatin A, sagittatin B, Anhydroicaritin-3-O-α-rhamnoside, Icariside E6, Icariside E7, Icaride A1, Icaride A2,  Icariside D3, Icariside H1, Icariside B9.
Epimedoside C, baohuoside VI, baohuoside I,  rouhuoside.
Wushanicariin.Dosage:用量：
6-15 g.
6～15克。Samples of formulae:處方舉例：
With  wu wei zi , gou qi zi   and sha yuan ji li ,for shenxu (kidney deficient)   impotence and infertility. 【1】
With sang ji sheng for painful obstructions, especially paralysis and pain of the lower extremities, or muscular contraction and numbness of the extremities.【1】
With xian mao 仙茅, huang bai 黃柏 , and  zhi mu 知母 for menopausal symptoms such as facial pallor, lower back pain, nocturia, menstrual irregularity, and dizziness from  liver deficient and shenyinxu (kidney yin deficient)   and subsequent ascendant Liver yang. This combination is also used for the above mentioned liver yang ascending  symptoms in men.【1】
er xian tang 二 仙 湯 for : premenopausal, irregular menses with shenyangxu (kidney yang deficient),  or shenyinxu (kidney yin deficient), and xu huo (deficient Fire) condition.腎虚陽萎不孕：仙灵脾， 五味子，枸 杞子 ， 沙苑蒺藜,下肢瘫痪，或肌肉抽筋，麻痹：仙灵脾加 桑寄生。更年期症候群如脸色蒼白，腰痛，夜尿多，月經不正常，與因肝虚，腎陽虚，而致肝陽 上升而導致頭晕。此方亦適於男性用。更年期綜合症、婦人更年期之高血壓，閉經， 以及其他慢性疾病見有 腎陰虛 、 腎陽虛 ，而虛
  火上炎者: 二 仙 湯更年期綜合症 而有肝腎 陰虛癥狀或肝陽上亢者 ：仙靈脾加 仙茅, 黃柏 ,  知母陽痿，不孕腎虛：仙靈脾加五味子,  枸杞子   沙苑蒺藜下肢癱瘓，疼痛，肌肉抽 搐，肢端麻木：仙靈脾加桑寄生Today's Usage:
1. For impotence:
A. Use yin yang huo 15 g. with tu si zi15 g. Grind into powder. 5 g a day in  3 servings. To be taken with yellow rice wine. 20 days is one treatment.  Take every day first thing in morning and before bed.  Massage the perineal area from left to right and right to left about 10 times .
B.  Every night use chuan xiong 15 g and xi xin 15 g. Boil a decoction and put in bathtub and sit for 20 minutes. Avoid intercourse for 100 days. Avoid over exertion and getting chilled. 7 days is one treatment.
Total cases: 38. 8 cases got better. 20 cases completely healed. After 2 years, no patients had recurring problems. Total effectiveness: 92 per cent.
2. For white patches of vagina.
3. For neurasthenia .
4. For coronary disease.
5. For viral infections of the heart muscle.
6. For chronic bronchial infection and asthma.
7. For treating the decrease of white cells.
8. For treating inflammation of the gray matter of the spinal cord.Modern Research:
Often steeped in wine for both kidney yang deficiency and painful obstruction.  Traditional preparation by stir frying with fat of goat is an effective method. Although stir frying with goat fat does not increase the total saponin in the leaves but the total saponin that dissolves by boiling in water increases; thus , improve the efficacy of the herb.
This herb improves the quality of life and cellular immunity in patients of hemodialysis maintenance.Cautions:注意﹕
Contraindicated in patients with fire from yin deficiency.  This herb should not be taken as a decoction, over prolonged periods. This herb can damage the yin. In some people, ingesting it can lead to dizziness, vomiting, dry mouth, thirst, and nose bleeding.
This herb from Japan can increase the activity of lab mice and causes hyper-reflexia even mild spasm. Very large doses can cause respiratory arrest.
陰虚有火者不適用。不可長期作湯剤服用以免傷陰。有些人服仙靈脾後可導致頭晕，嘔吐，口乾，口渴，流鼻血。
日產仙靈脾(淫羊藿) 能致反射亢進甚至痙攣。大劑量可致呼吸停止。 【1】Bensky and Gamble.





Search this 
    site 

Problems with website? 
    Please 
Click 
    here for comment. (Not for inquiry )    
    

Click 
    here for inquiry 



Copyright Notice 

按此看關於版權問題




Sponsors' Ads by Google 
    以下為谷歌 所提供之廣告



A manuscript... writing, translating and proofreading  in progress

Menu:









List 
        of Health Problems




Qigong 
        (chi kung)




Toxicity of Some Herbs



Side Effect of Some Herbs



Herbs that can be toxic to kidneys




        Traditional Chinese Medicine
 


TCM Diagnosis
 


        Samples of Formulae




        Terms of Traditional Chinese Medicine



        Acupuncture





Chinese Herb Dictionary





Qigong classes




        Prescribed Drug Dictionary




        Email our web master for  your suggestion (not for inquiry)



Biochemistry Dictionary



 



Qigong 
        classes

 



Research Librarian

 






copy right
 


版權所有



Home




        Weather Report




        Disclaimer


Last update: June 2, 2015; 9 a..m. 
        LAH





 








